---
layout: post
title: npm Memo 
tags: [npm, js]
categories:
- blog
---

> node version manager install

<Install>
  <summary>NVM install</summary>
_Git install_
If you have `git` installed (requires git v1.7+):

1. clone this repo in the root of your user profile
  - `cd ~/` from anywhere then `git clone https://github.com/creationix/nvm.git .nvm`
1. check out the latest version with `git checkout v0.33.5`
1. activate nvm by sourcing it from your shell

Now add these lines to your `~/.bashrc`, `~/.profile`, or `~/.zshrc` file to have it automatically sourced upon login:
(you may have to add to more than one of the above files)

```sh
export NVM_DIR="$HOME/.nvm"
[ -s "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh"  # This loads nvm
[ -s "$NVM_DIR/bash_completion" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/bash_completion"  # This loads nvm bash_completion
```
_nvm-windows_
[become a Patron](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows)

## Usage

NVM for Windows is a command line tool. Simply type `nvm` in the console for help. The basic commands are:

- `nvm arch [32|64]`: Show if node is running in 32 or 64 bit mode. Specify 32 or 64 to override the default architecture.
- `nvm install <version> [arch]`: The version can be a node.js version or "latest" for the latest stable version. Optionally specify whether to install the 32 or 64 bit version (defaults to system arch). Set `[arch]` to "all" to install 32 AND 64 bit versions.
- `nvm list [available]`: List the node.js installations. Type `available` at the end to show a list of versions available for download.
- `nvm on`: Enable node.js version management.
- `nvm off`: Disable node.js version management (does not uninstall anything).
- `nvm proxy [url]`: Set a proxy to use for downloads. Leave `[url]` blank to see the current proxy. Set `[url]` to "none" to remove the proxy.
- `nvm uninstall <version>`: Uninstall a specific version.
- `nvm use <version> [arch]`: Switch to use the specified version. Optionally specify 32/64bit architecture. `nvm use <arch>` will continue using the selected version, but switch to 32/64 bit mode based on the value supplied to `<arch>`. For information about using `use` in a specific directory (or using `.nvmrc`), please refer to [issue #16](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows/issues/16).
- `nvm root <path>`: Set the directory where nvm should store different versions of node.js. If `<path>` is not set, the current root will be displayed.
- `nvm version`: Displays the current running version of NVM for Windows.
- `nvm node_mirror <node_mirror_url>`: Set the node mirror.People in China can use *https://npm.taobao.org/mirrors/node/*
- `nvm npm_mirror <npm_mirror_url>`: Set the npm mirror.People in China can use *https://npm.taobao.org/mirrors/npm/*
